2023-08-15 | Luthetus.Ide | Notes

This file is ordered with the most recent date as the first entry.

---

## 2023-08-15

I want to improve the documentation.

## 2023-08-16

In the README.md I want to add:
- "Input File Dialog:" needs a gif.
- "NuGet Package Manager" needs a gif.
- "Themes" needs a gif.
- Why do some section titles have a ':' and some don't? See "Input File Dialog:" and "NuGet Package Manager"

## 2023-08-22

- I want to fix the freezing bug.
- I want to improve the UI.

## 2023-08-25

> Website lacks Terminal

When it comes to the website, there is a question of: "How many features can I fake, given that there is no terminal".

For example, how do I run the selected start-up project?

I need to list what features don't work in the website:

- Run selected start-up project
- New .NET Solution
- New C# Project
- Move C# Project to Solution Folder
- Modify C# Project to reference a NuGet Package
- Modify C# Project to reference another C# Project

Now, I need to evaluate the question "How many features can I fake, given that there is no terminal".

I think the answer is I can fake everything except for "Run selected start-up project"

In that case, is there a sensible work-around to "Run selected start-up project"?

I believe it is reasonable that for the website, one can `import compressed archives` and then they'll be loaded into the `InMemoryFileSystem`.

Furthermore, one should be able to `export as a compressed archive` the entirety of their `InMemoryFileSystem`.

I believe this `import` and `export` logic, to be a reasonable solution to not being able to run one's code. They can export, then run it, if so desired.