2023-09 | Luthetus.Ide | Notes

---

## 2023-09-02

### .NET sln
.NET sln needs to be an immutable type
which is accessed through a `DotNetSolutionKey`.

All modifications to a .NET sln need be done via the `DotNetSolutionReducer`.

One can view the current state of a `DotNetSolution` by looking up into the `DotNetSolutionCollection` using a `DotNetSolutionKey`.

### Background Tasks
The current implementation of IBackgroundTaskQueue for the WASM host is incorrect.

I realized that each enqueue'd task was being invoked immediately, even if a prior task was still running.

This logic needs to be fixed, I think I've seen some oddities going on in the WASM app, and this might explain a few of them.

## 2023-09-04

### Ideas
- Continue implementing features that don't work in the web browser.

## 2023-09-10

### ContextBoundary.razor

I want to continue working on `ContextBoundary.razor`.

The `ActiveContextsDisplay.razor` should display the "rolled up" keymap given the user's current context heirarchy.

The context heirarchy is built by aggregating all the `ContextBoundary` Blazor components. Because, each component has a `[CascadingParameter]` for the `ParentContextBoundary`.

The closest `ContextBoundary` to the focused HTML element should get precedence when invoking the keymap.

That is to say, the closest `ContextBoundary` would check if its keymap has something bound given the keymap argument. If it doesn't have something bound, then propagate the keymap argument to the next closest `ContextBoundary` until someone handles the keymap argument, or a null parent is met.

One could then make a "rolled up" keymap on the fly as the user moves their focus around the website.

The rolled up keymap, instead of executing a command. Would get the first `ContextBoundary`, starting with the closest, who has a command mapped. If a further out ancestor `ContextBoundary` also has that keymap argument, then their command would `NOT` be shown. (perhaps make another menu for conflicting keymaps).

### Color Picker Blazor Component

I want there to be 4 themes for now.

- Visual Studio Dark Theme
- Visual Studio Light Theme
- Luthetus Dark Theme
- Luthetus Light Theme

Perhaps in the future one could add a theme of their own. But I'm going step by step.

The color picker Blazor component should work like inspect element in a web browser's dev tools.

I want to begin the 'select an HTML element' phase. Then as I hover it shows an overlay of the component using just a single color and opacity that one can see through.

Then clicking on an HTML element I want to see all of the CSS variables which influence any color within that target html element, or its child elements.

So, a click on an HTML element would use JavaScript to walk the DOM and collect any CSS classes that an element has which match a regex expression.

*NOTE:* It might be best to query what css is causing the color, because currently the sizing css variables are not clearly distinguishable from the color css variables (via regex).

Once all the css variables are gathered, then render in the Color Picker Panel, all the variables as a vertical list, with their color as a tiny box to the left of the starting of the css variable name. The box showing the color should be the same
height as the text itself.

When one clicks on any of the boxes which display color,
it should open a color picker (literally) dialog.

There are many ways to render a color picker. I'm not sure which way I like the most. Preferably I can just implement all of the ways in which one picks color. That is, there is a color wheel, then another implementation I think is a square of sorts? They all in the end result in a color having been picked, but some I find more intuitive than others.

### Default Themes
- Visual Studio Dark Theme
- Visual Studio Light Theme
- Luthetus Dark Theme
- Luthetus Light Theme

The Visual Studio themes should be as close to exact replicas as is possible.

I greatly dislike nearly every color theme for programming. The reason is, they tend to look nice. But, I believe its at the cost of functionality.

I don't care what the color theme looks like. I think if one averages out all humans in regards to the visual colors they can see.

That there is a mathematically provable correct color scheme. Any other color scheme is just to look nice.

Control flow, and method invocation are vitally important.
I'd go as far as to say the only colors you need are the control keywords like 'for' 'return'... and method invocation.

If one cannot see these distinctly from every other color then the color scheme is useless.

I think I am just ranting at this point.