2023-10 | Luthetus.Common | Notes

---

## 2023-10-02

- [ ] FIX: DotNetSolutionCompilerService
    - [ ]: The current `Luthetus.CompilerServices.Lang.DotNetSolution.DotNetSolutionLexer` is scuffed. As such, the `Luthetus.CompilerServices.Lang.DotNetSolution.Tests.Code.TestDotNetSolutionLexer` was written. In order to finish the rewrite, finish the `Luthetus.CompilerServices.Lang.DotNetSolution.Tests.Code.TestDotNetSolutionParser`
        - [ ]: After rewriting the original logic, add make Blazor component that renders out arbitrary .sln files as a GUI.

## 2023-10-01

### Goals

- [ ] FIX: When creating a new C# Project for a .NET Solution, the .NET Solution does not reload. Instead one loses their active solution and has to re-open it.

- [ ] FIX: The C# diagnostic presentation model is erroneously carrying over to other files.

- [ ] ADD: Git integration
    - [ ] ADD: Arbitrary Version Control System integration

- [ ] ADD: Diff Editor

- [ ] ADD: Event Handler for application resize.
    - [ ] ADD: On resize event, measure any resizable elements. Then, enforce a minimum size by limiting the amount one can subtract from the 60vw (or whatever measurement it may be).

- [ ] FIX: Dropdowns
    - [ ] ADD: When rendering a dropdown, pre-measure the width needed, then if rendering the dropdown would make it go offscreen, offset the position of the dropdown so that it stays on screen.
        - [ ] ADD: In a case where it is impossible fit a dropdown onscreen, show as much as one can, then allow for scrolling.

- [ ] FIX: Terminals
    - [ ] ADD: Parse output of terminal for any links, then create a navlink in place of the text.

- [ ] FIX: DotNetSolutionCompilerService
    - [ ]: The current `Luthetus.CompilerServices.Lang.DotNetSolution.DotNetSolutionLexer` is scuffed. As such, the `Luthetus.CompilerServices.Lang.DotNetSolution.Tests.Code.TestDotNetSolutionLexer` was written. In order to finish the rewrite, finish the `Luthetus.CompilerServices.Lang.DotNetSolution.Tests.Code.TestDotNetSolutionParser`
        - [ ]: After rewriting the original logic, add make Blazor component that renders out arbitrary .sln files as a GUI.

- [ ] Add: Ctrl + f logic inside a view model, and Ctrl + F logic across a larger scale search provider

- [ ] Add: TreeView virtualization

- [ ] Add: Generic component for rendering HTML content invisibly, and then measuring it. When turning off monospace optimizations. Perhaps this component can be used to avoid two renders (the first render being the monospace render, and the second being the reposition due to proportional measurement having been taken.)

- [ ] Fix: Tab spacing messes with the text editor. This needs to be fixed.
    - Fix: Scroll horizontally such that a tab key is just barely visible (on the left side). This makes things look weird and move oddly.
    - Fix: Click the first half of a tab character vs the last half you cannot easily go to the left or right side based on percentage closer that you click to one end.
    - Fix: Proportional font breaks when there is a tab key on the same line as any proportional font text.
    - Fix: Proportional font breaks when there is a tab key on the same line as any proportional font text.
    - Add: Option to set tab width.

- [ ] Add: Vertical line at some horizontal distance to indicate a newline should be used for readability. (this is an option for on or off, and for the distance)

- [ ] Fix: Nullability Warnings

- [ ] Fix: Unit testing need to be improved for UI related things

- [ ] Fix: Filesystem operations for the Website demo. (I don't think Cut and Paste works, for example)

- [ ] Fix: There are a lot of {...}ContextMenu.razor files, and they tend to contain repeated code. Could these components share code?

- [ ] Fix: Make a scoped Service for the "ParentOfCutFile" that is in all the {...}ContextMenu.razor files. Currently its a hack using static modifier.

- [ ] Add: Logic for Ctrl + Tab to change context focus.

- [ ] Add: In TextEditor, upon newline keystroke, insert indentation according to the context.

- [ ] Fix: Remove dead code. (unused fields, properties, etc...)