2023-09 | Luthetus.Common | Notes

---

## 2023-09-30

### Realizations today for coding

- Freeze the IDE by doing the following: Double click on a Aaa.razor while it doesn't have the code behind child expanded from within the .NET Solution Explorer. This does not happen everytime, and it isn't this one file it feels random, but there's gotta be a reason that it happens occassionally when double clicking to open a file from the solution explorer. I was extra detailed just to be paranoid about every detail mattering.

- Just spam double click on two separate files, alternating once the one opens double click spam the other and back and forth. Causes freeze eventually.

- The @onclick combined with @ondblclick feels incredibly suspect as to something that could be a cause of the freezing.

### List Every Method Invocation that occurs in response to a double click on a .NET Solution Explorer file.

- void HandleOnClick(MouseEventArgs? mouseEventArgs):TreeViewDisplay.razor.cs:134
- void HandleOnDoubleClick(MouseEventArgs? mouseEventArgs):TreeViewDisplay.razor.cs:148

### Goal today for coding

- Fix CSS Variables for light theme. (As in, some colors were done first in dark theme, then just thrown together when it came to light theme.)

- Fix CSS Variables for inspect element, currently it is just the color 'aqua' for both light and dark theme

Syntax Highlight in .razor files, Blazor Component parameters. (see 'SomeParameter' in the following code snippet)

Use ICompilerService to provide autocompletion.

```html
<SomeComponent SomeParameter="Aaa">
```

## 2023-09-29

### Realizations today for coding

(more recent comment here). The issue is InputFileSidebar.razor.cs at line 79 The freezing is related to where it is registering the TreeView. I suspect it is an issue that OnInitialized is used, then a parent re-renders during OnInitialized and eveything gets clobbered. Not sure yet though. Okay, it seems to be fixed now that I'm using OnAfterRenderAsync() and if(firstRender) { ... }

I just now had many successes in Luthetus.Ide when opening "New Solution"
then clicking on the directory icon so I can pick the directory.

However, this is specifically in the case that I don't interact with
the input html elements on the "New Solution" dialog???

### Goal today for coding

- Fix CSS Variables for light theme. (As in, some colors were done first in dark theme, then just thrown together when it came to light theme.)

- Fix CSS Variables for inspect element, currently it is just the color 'aqua' for both light and dark theme

- Syntax Highlight .razor files. Razor directives should be pink, whereas razor components should be green (dark theme specifically but generalize this for any theme)

- I think the background color for the panels where the panel tabs are is gotten from a css variable named, "footer-background-color". This css variable name no longer makes sense, since it was taken from the footer and moved to the panels. As such it needs to be renamed.

Syntax Highlight in .razor files, Blazor Component parameters. (see 'SomeParameter' in the following code snippet)

```html
<SomeComponent SomeParameter="Aaa">
```

## 2023-09-27

### Links

Previous video:
https://youtu.be/8_Z4AThin8Y

Demo (does not work on mobile):
https://luthetus.github.io/Luthetus.Website/

Repo:
https://github.com/Luthetus/Luthetus.Ide

### Goal today for coding

- Add the video from the 25th as a "Previous video" link in the description of the video from the 26th.

- Fix Vim?
- When I rewrote the keymap logic, what broke with Vim specifically was the visual mode, and block visual mode logic. It needs fixed.

- Display a .razor text editor.
- Type:

```html
<PersonSimpleDisplay FirstName="John"
                     LastName="Doe"/>
```

- Autocomplete uses the CSharpCompilerService to find the Blazor Parameters to the Component the displays them in a dropdown (if the user's cursor is in the respective position)

- Within the tag usage, where FirstName parameter is passed in, hover cursor over FirstName and it shows the FirstName PropertySymbol.

- Render the PersonSimpleDisplay with the corresponding Blazor parameters that were passed in.

## 2023-09-26

### Goal in general
- When I change the Key&lt;TextEditorViewModel&gt; I need to refresh the CompilerServiceDiagnostic PresentationModel.

- Meaning, currently if a C# file as a diagnostic rendered, then I open a .razor file. Because .razor does not provide a CompilerServiceDiagnostic PresentationModel, then the model from the C# file stays and incorrectly renders its diagnosstics within the .razor file.

- I was not sure how to handle objects in the C# CompilerService. I think what I did with the ComponentRunnerDisplay.razor is exactly what I need do in the C# CompilerService.

- In otherwords the string mapping to a type. Then that type has foreach of its members a string mapping to that member's type and do so recursively. Eventually a parameterless constructor, or a constructor which takes either value types, or strings will be found and the recursion would end.

- Use the ComponentRunnerDisplay to in isolation, run a single component at a time. I found that the Photino app has that freezing bug occur without even using the TextEditor. I think how I'm running the HostedServices with a 'Task.Run' is causing the issue? (AddHostedService&lt;...&gt;() wasn't working so I did add singleton then on startup start the task myself.)

### Realizations today for coding
- The interactions of the RazorCompilerService and the HtmlCompilerService were confusing to me.
- I this was confusing because I wanted to write a css class for either the HtmlCompilerService OR the RazorCompilerService.
- For example:

```html
<div @onclick="SomeMethod">

</div>
```

- In the previous html block I have a div with a Blazor "@onclick" attribute. The value is "SomeMethod".

- The RazorCompilerService code invokes the HtmlCompilerService. When this is done, various function references are passed along as well as parameters.

- So, if the HtmlCompilerService sees an HTML attribute name. It might invoke the function reference named 'OnFoundHtmlAttributeName'.

- This lets the RazorCompilerService take back control, and check if the attribute name is for example '@onclick' or some other Blazor specific attribute name.

- Then the RazorCompilerService gives back control to the HtmlCompilerService, but with the pointer to the text having been moved. (the RazorCompilerService delt with the HTML attribute name, now the attribute value is what the HtmlCompilerService sees). So as a result only the RazorCompilerService wrote out its class.

- Currently the HtmlCompilerService also gives the RazorCompilerService control when the "C# Transition Character" is found. So, the '@' character.

- I suppose what is on my mind is, HTML Attribute Names should be handled the same way as a C# symbol being encountered within the HTML markup. See:

```html
<div>@Person.FirstName</div>
```

- In the previous example I have a div, then "@Person.FirstName" as the div's child content.

- The RazorCompilerService identifies "@" and colors it as an injected language fragment.

- As well, it notices the "Person" identifier to be a C# Symbol and colors it accordingly.

- So, the RazorCompilerService is not only invoking the HtmlCompilerService, but also the CSharpCompilerService.

- If its the case that the CSharpCompilerService can sytax color, and provide tooltips on hover, for C# symbols in the HTML markup. Why am I handling the RazorCompilerService syntax coloring and tooltips any differently?

- The RazorCompilerService just need be notified of the '@' C# transition character. Then if its '@onclick'. Instead of what I'm currently doing, add a Symbol for '@onclick' to the RazorCompilerService and all is done by the interface logic for me.

- Html sees tag name -> Razor checks if is BlazorComponent -> if is then add InjectedLanguageComponentSymbol

- Everytime the Razor sees tag name it remembers the tag name.

- Html sees attribute-name -> Razor checks if recently seen tag name was a BlazorComponent. -> if is BlazorComponent -> CSharpCompilerService checks if a BlazorParameter with the attribute name is found in the class -> if is then add InjectedLanguageComponentSymbol

- InjectedLanguageDirectiveSymbol for differentiating between injected component logic vs like @onclick or @page

- For BlazorComponent Parameter Autocomplete. RazorCompilerService uses cursor position to find any Razor symbols that the cursor is within position bounds of. If cursor is within an InjectedLanguageComponentSymbol then look for any BlazorParameters for that datatype in CSharpCompilerService?

- How do I differentiate between a cursor being inside of the child content of a Blazor component vs being inside the opening tag of a blazor component and that a parameter should be looked for in autocomplete.

- Maybe I can see that user cursor is near a Blazor Component, then map the BlazorComponentTagName to the HtmlCompilerService's HTML node. Then see where that HTML node's opening tag ends.

- Exporting a 1 hour video at 4k takes 2-3 hours. This also puts my CPU at 44% and memory at 80%. I'm worried about recording during an export since it would mean, Visual Studio is open and im screen recording at 4k. Need to get a habit of starting these exports before I go to bed, so it happens while I'm not using the computer.

### Goal today for coding
- Display a .razor text editor.
- Type:

```html
<PersonSimpleDisplay FirstName="John"
                     LastName="Doe"/>
```

- Use RazorCompilerService to find the HTML tag names.

- Check using reflection if the tag name exists as a Blazor component's name.

- If so change the color of the text from an HTML element to some other color to signify it is a Blazor Component.

- Autocomplete uses the CSharpCompilerService to find the Blazor Parameters to the Component the displays them in a dropdown (if the user's cursor is in the respective position)

- Within the tag usage, where FirstName parameter is passed in, hover cursor over FirstName and it shows the FirstName PropertySymbol.

- Render the PersonSimpleDisplay with the corresponding Blazor parameters that were passed in.

### Ideas today for coding
- Reflection based "compiler". Would be the first goal.
- Then allow user to write their own code and compile it.
- I don't want to use CodeAnalysis then inject the result into the executing assembly, but I also have no other idea of how to compile the users code.

### Thumbnail
- Take photo of self.
- Put a dark theme background
- Photo either left or right.
- Some text on the other side
- Keep this consistent.
- Text is simple "Aaa - Summary"
- Text is simple "Aaa - Code"

### Links
Demo (does not work on mobile):
- https://luthetus.github.io/Luthetus.Website/

Repo:
- https://github.com/Luthetus/Luthetus.Ide

### Videos
- Record entire process of coding
- Every hour (or so) summarize what happened during that period of the time / go over the code / functionality that was added.
- Two videos every day.
    - Video 1 is the aggregation of all the summaries.
    - video 2 is the aggregation of all the coding.
- Video 1 is short and to the point
    - Every summary provides a link to the full hour of coding that corresponds to what I'm summarizing.
- Video 2 is long and shows all the code being written.
    - Video 2 should be 4 hours total.
- So, every day program 4 hours and record it.
    - During that time every period of hour stop the recording and start a new one which is the summary of that hour.
- In OpenShot software
    - merge the coding videos.
    - merge the summary videos.
- In the youtube description of the merged coding videos include mappings to where I summarize what was done.
    - Vice versa (both videos include timestamps pointing to eachother.)
- Do this every day.
    - Fund the development of Luthetus.Ide by way of the youtube channel. (???)

### Export Video Profile
- 4K UHD 2160p 30 fps (3840x2160) for summaries
- To be determined lower quality for the coding since they are expected to be 4 hours long. Uploading 4k quality of 4hours of footage sounds like a bad idea.

## 2023-09-25

### ComponentRunner

Thinking about JupyterNotebook in Blazor
{
    TextEditorModel.GetAllText()
    {
        public class Person
        {
            public void TouchGrass()
            {
                Console.WriteLine("Some text");
            }
        }

        var person = new Person();
        person.TouchGrass();
    }

    ComponentRunner
    {
        var parameters = new Dictionary<string, object?>?
        {
            {
                nameof(ConsoleOutputRenderer.Output),
                "Some text"
            }
        };

        <DynamicComponent Type="ConsoleOutputRenderer"
                          Parameters="parameters">
        {
            <div>Some text</div>
        }
    }
}

NoDir
- ComponentRunnerDisplay.razor
- ComponentRunnerOptions.cs
- ComponentRunnerPanel.razor

Internals
- ArgumentList.razor
- Constructor.razor
- DisplayState.cs
- StringInput.razor
- Variable.razor
- SetContentDisplay.razor
- TestComponent.razor

States
- ComponentRunnerState.Actions.cs
- ComponentRunnerState.Main.cs
- ComponentRunnerState.Reducer.cs


### Visual Studio Settings
Font-Size:
- 16px (normal)
- 24px (recording)

Statement-Completion:
- 18px (normal)
- 24px (recording)

Editor-Tooltip:
- 16px (normal)
- 24px (recording)

All-Text-Tool-Windows:
- 18px (normal)
- 24px (recording)

Package-Manager-Console:
- 13px (normal)
- 24px (recording)

Terminal:
- 16px (normal)
- 24px (recording)

[Watch, Locals, and Autos Tool Windows]:
- 23px (normal)
- 24px (recording)

CallStack-Window:
- 12px (normal)
- 24px (recording)

DataTips:
- 16px (normal)
- 24px (recording)

Debug-Location-Toolbar:
- 12px (normal)
- 22px (recording)

Environment:
- 16px (normal)
- 22px (recording)

Parallel-Stacks-Window:
- 16px (normal)
- 22px (recording)

Parallel-Tasks-Window:
- 16px (normal)
- 22px (recording)

Text-Visualizer:
- 12px (normal)
- 22px (recording)

Threads-Window:
- 12px (normal)
- 22px (recording)

### Visual Studio Code Settings
Font-Size:
- 16px (normal)
- 26px (recording)

### Luthetus.Ide Settings
Font-Size:
- 20px (normal)
- 28px (recording)

Icon-Size:
- 18px (normal)
- 24px (recording)

Text-Editor-Font-Size:
- 22px (normal)
- 32px (recording)

### GitHub Desktop Settings
Zoom-Level:
- 100% (normal)
- 150% (recording)

### Terminal Default Settings
Font-Size:
- 20px (normal)
- 28px (recording)

## 2023-09-16

### I want to remove all usage of Fluxor `[EffectMethod]`

A big part of Fluxor that I don't understand, is regarding async-concurrent state changes.

`[EffectMethod]` is async but not concurrency safe.

Then, there is `[ReducerMethod]` which is synchronous and concurrency safe.

In order to introduce async-concurrent sate changes, I've started using `[ReducerMethod]` to instead enqueue an asynchronous background task. Where all the background tasks are in a shared queue, synchronously enqueue'd, and thereby asynchronous AND concurrency safe.

In short, [FeatureState]'s have a FeatureSync. It feels a bit awkward at the moment, but I still find this incredibly useful.

### Key&lt;T&gt; instead of a FeatureKey class definition each time

I want a generic class Key&lt;T&gt; and then instead of `DialogKey` one would use Key&lt;DialogRecord&gt;.

## 2023-09-11

### TabGroupDisplay.razor
- `TabGroupDisplay.razor`

> [Aaa (X)] [Bbb (X)] [Ccc (X)]

```csharp
var aaaTextEditor = new TabEntry<TextEditorViewModelKey>();
var bbbTextEditor = new TabEntry<TextEditorViewModelKey>();
var cccTextEditor = new TabEntry<TextEditorViewModelKey>();

var textEditorTabGroup =  new TabGroup(
    TabGroupCategoryKey.TextEditor,
    new []
    {
        aaaTextEditor,
        bbbTextEditor,
        cccTextEditor,
    });
```

```csharp
var aaaPanel = new TabEntry<PanelKey>();
var bbbPanel = new TabEntry<PanelKey>();
var cccPanel = new TabEntry<PanelKey>();
var dddPanel = new TabEntry<PanelKey>();
var eeePanel = new TabEntry<PanelKey>();

var topLeftPanelTabGroup =  new TabGroup(
    TabGroupCategoryKey.Panel,
    new []
    {
        aaaPanel,
        bbbPanel,
    });

var topRightPanelTabGroup =  new TabGroup(
    TabGroupCategoryKey.Panel,
    new []
    {
        cccPanel,
        dddPanel,
    });

var bottomPanelTabGroup =  new TabGroup(
    TabGroupCategoryKey.Panel,
    new []
    {
        eeePanel,
    });
```

```csharp
PanelApi.Move(ITabEntry tab, TabGroup from, TabGroup to);

if (from.TabGroupCategoryKey != to.TabGroupCategoryKey)
{
    throw new ApplicationException(
        $"{nameof(TabGroupCategoryKey)}s must match");
}

from.Remove(tab);
to.Add(tab);
```

```csharp
PanelApi.TabToDialog(ITabEntry tab, TabGroup from);

from.Remove(tab);

// Somehow convert TabEntry to a DialogRecord without
// loosing information about what TabCategory the Dialog
// would then be able to be dragged to to make a
// it into a tab again.
DialogApi.Register(tab);
```

```csharp
public record DynamicRenderer(
    Type RendererType,
    Dictionary<string, object?>? Parameters);

public record PolymorphRenderer(
    DynamicRenderer DynamicRenderer,
    DialogKey? DialogKey,
    TabEntryKey? TabEntryKey,
    NotificationKey? NotificationKey,
    ImmutableArray<TabGroupCategory> TabGroupCategories);
```

If one has a non null DialogKey, then that Component can be
dragged out into a dialog.

If one has a non null TabEntryKey, then that Component can be
dragged into a TabGroup that has a matching TabGroupCategory in TabGroupCategories.

If one has a non null NotificationKey, then that Component can be
rendered as a notification.

### Move code for Keymap and Command from Luthetus.Ide to Luthetus.Common

Then use the Luthetus.Common Keymap and Command code in place of the
- TextEditorKeymap
- TextEditorCommand
- TreeViewKeymap
- TreeViewCommand

## 2023-09-04

### Ideas
- PanelTabs drag out to make a Dialog of that PanelTab specifically.
- PanelTabs tabs drag out then show a 5 dropzone "grid".
    - One can drop on the left dropdown to make another panel record left of the current one and etc...