2023-08 | Luthetus.Common | Notes

---

## 2023-08-15

I want to improve the documentation.

## 2023-08-16

I want to upload the NuGet Package.

I want to write documentation for installation.

I want to record a video of the installation documentation. That is to say, I myself go through the written documentation on video and follow the steps.

For uploading the NuGet Package I'm going to run these commands, in this order:

Open a terminal with the working directory set to the directory which contains 'Luthetus.Common.RazorLib.csproj'

Execute:
> dotnet pack

Execute:
> cd ./bin/Debug

Inside './bin/Debug' there will be a file named 'Luthetus.Common.1.0.0.nupkg'

Execute:
> dotnet nuget push ./Luthetus.Common.1.0.0.nupkg --api-key {API-KEY} --source https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json

## 2023-08-17

I need to package the NuGet Packages and then test them locally to make sure they work before publishing them.

I think I should execute `dotnet build` before, `dotnet pack`. 

This is because it seems `dotnet pack` only performs a `dotnet restore` internally. It doesn't do a build first.

In NuGet Package Manager Console:
> Install-Package "C:\Users\hunte\Repos\NugetPackagesPersonal\Luthetus.Common\Luthetus.Common.1.1.0.nupkg"

works nicely for locally installing a package.

## 2023-08-18

I need to dual-boot my computer with Ubuntu instead of Windows.
Then I can go through the documentation start to finish in a different environment and see if it works.

## 2023-08-19

I'm having issues with using Luthetus.TextEditor in a .NET 7 C# Project.

In order to remedy this I am going to change all intra-project references to be referencing instead a NuGet Package of the respective project.

All projects need a build script. The build script should emit a local NuGet Package that can be used. I imagine this process is very fast if the script is written, and correct.

Inside the projects I need to omit the "TargetFramework" XML attribute for the .csproj files.

Then, all references must be made conditionally. That is to say, if the Package is being used in a .NET 6 environment then load the .NET 6 related things, if its .NET 7 then load the .NET 7 related things instead, etc...